1. Terraform

👉 Version: Install the latest stable version of Terraform.
👉 Installation Guide:
👉 For Linux: Use package managers like apt or yum.
👉 For macOS: Use brew install terraform.
👉 For Windows: Download the binary and add it to your PATH.

2. AWS Account

👉 Access to AWS: Create an AWS account if you don't have one.
👉 IAM User: Set up an IAM user with programmatic access, with AdministratorAccess or necessary policies for the resources you'll manage.
👉 AWS CLI: Install and configure the AWS CLI with the IAM user credentials:

aws configure

3. AWS Access Keys

👉 You need AWS access keys (Access Key ID and Secret Access Key) for Terraform to interact with AWS services.
👉 Store them in environment variables or a credential file:

export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=your-access-key-id
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=your-secret-access-key

4. Code Repository (Git)

👉 Use a Git platform (like GitHub or GitLab) to store and version your Terraform modules.
👉 Git CLI: Make sure Git is installed for version control and repository management

git --version

5. Text Editor or IDE

👉 Use an editor like VSCode or JetBrains IDE for writing your Terraform code.
👉 Install the Terraform extension for syntax highlighting and linting.

6. Terraform State Storage

👉 Use a remote backend for storing your Terraform state (e.g., AWS S3 bucket with DynamoDB for state locking).

Create an S3 bucket:
aws s3 mb s3://your-terraform-state-bucket

👉 Set up a DynamoDB table for state locking:
👉 aws dynamodb create-table --table-name your-tf-lock-table --attribute-definitions At

7. Terraform Cloud/Enterprise (Optional)

👉 If you want collaboration and workspace management features, set up Terraform Cloud or Terraform Enterprise.

8. Automation Tool

👉 Choose a CI/CD tool for automating your Terraform module deployment (e.g., Jenkins, GitHub Actions, GitLab CI, or AWS CodePipeline).

9. Terraform Linter (Optional)

👉 Install a linter like tflint to check for syntax errors and best practices.

10. Access to Open-Source Terraform Modules (Optional)

👉 Familiarize yourself with existing modules from the Terraform Registry, which can speed up development.



















